

提示行由一个 环境变量定义

PS1 (short for "Prompt string 1") 

可以使用 echo 命令看下
> yiqing@yiqing-VirtualBox:~/yiqing-space/the_linux_command_line$ echo $PS1
  \[\e]0;\u@\h: \w\a\]${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\u@\h:\w\$
  

Escape Codes Used in Shell Prompts

Sequence Value displayed
\a ASCII bell. This makes the computer beep when it is encountered.
\d Current date in day, month, date format. For example, “Mon May 26.”
\h Hostname of the local machine minus the trailing domain name.
\H Full hostname.
\j Number of jobs running in the current shell session.
\l Name of the current terminal device.
\n A newline character.
\r A carriage return.
\s Name of the shell program.
\t Current time in 24-hour hours:minutes:seconds format.
\T Current time in 12-hour format.
\@ Current time in 12-hour am/pm format.
\A Current time in 24-hour hours:minutes format.
\u Username of the current user.
\v Version number of the shell.
\V Version and release numbers of the shell.
\w Name of the current working directory.
\W Last part of the current working directory name.
\! History number of the current command.
\# Number of commands entered during this shell session.
\$ This displays a $ character unless we have superuser privileges. In that
case, it displays a # instead.
\[ Signals the start of a series of one or more non-printing characters. This is
used to embed non-printing control characters that manipulate the terminal
emulator in some way, such as moving the cursor or changing text colors.
\] Signals the end of a non-printing character sequence.  

>  Terminal Confusion
   Back in ancient times, when terminals were hooked to remote computers, there
   were many competing brands of terminals, and they all worked differently. They
   had different keyboards, and they all had different ways of interpreting control
   information. Unix and Unix-like systems have two rather complex subsystems to
   deal with the babel of terminal control (called termcap and terminfo). If you look
   in the deepest recesses of your terminal emulator settings, you might find a setting
   for the type of terminal emulation.
   In an effort to make terminals speak some sort of common language, the
   American National Standards Institute (ANSI) developed a standard set of character
   sequences to control video terminals. Old-time DOS users will remember
   the ANSI.SYS file that was used to enable interpretation of these codes.
 
 > Character color is controlled by sending the terminal emulator an ANSI
   escape code embedded in the stream of characters to be displayed. The control
   code does not “print out” on the display; rather, it is interpreted by the terminal
   as an instruction. As we saw in Table 13-1, the \[ and \] sequences are
   used to encapsulate non-printing characters. An ANSI escape code begins
   with an octal 033 (the code generated by the esc key), followed by an optional
   character attribute, followed by an instruction. For example, the code to set
   the text color to normal (attribute = 0), black text is as follows:
   
   yii\helpers\BaseConsole 类里面有一些控制码 ...
   
   自己看吧 